# Model Card for RecFusion

A Binomial / Gaussian Diffusion Process for 1D Data for Recommendation

# Model Details

## Model Description

A Binomial / Gaussian Diffusion Process for 1D Data for Recommendation

- **Developed by:** Anonymized
- **Model type:** Recommendation model
- **License:** unknown

# Uses


## Direct Use

(i) non-sequential (ii) Top-K recommendation with (iii) binary feedback


## Out-of-Scope Use

Recommendation setups that violate assumptions (i)-(iii).


# Bias, Risks, and Limitations

Significant research has explored bias and fairness issues with language models (see, e.g., [Li et al. (2021)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2205.13619.pdf)). Predictions generated by the model may for example unfairly favor more active users and more popular items.


# Training Details

## Training Data

MovieLens1M, MovieLens10M, MovieLens25M, Netflix

## Preprocessing

(i) filter out users with fewer than five items, and items with fewer than five interactions
(ii) Users are split into train, validation and test sets (0.8 / 0.1 / 0.1), with the training employing the entire history. For validation and test sets, a partial history is fed to the recommender, with a held-out set being used to evaluate the resulting recommendation. [a.k.a. strong generalization]
(iii) binarize feedback: ratings above 3 are encoded as 1, and zero otherwise.

 
# Evaluation

## Metrics

Recall@20, Recall@50, NDCG@100

## Results 

| Dataset      | Model              | Recall@20 | Recall@50 | NDCG@100 |
|--------------|--------------------|-----------|-----------|----------|
| MovieLens25M | Random             | 0.13      | 0.30      | 0.24     |
|              | Popularity         | 16.63     | 24.43     | 19.69    |
|              | \textbf{RecFusion} | 33.21     | 45.44     | 37.31    |
|              | CODIGEM            | 34.05     | 45.84     | 37.90    |
|              | MultVAE            | 35.12     | 48.09     | 39.12    |
|              | EASE               | 40.02     | 52.71     | 43.84    |
| Netflix      | Random             | 0.18      | 0.32      | 0.31     |
|              | Popularity         | 11.73     | 17.48     | 15.89    |
|              | CODIGEM            | 25.54     | 33.48     | 29.08    |
|              | \textbf{RecFusion} | 29.68     | 37.63     | 32.87    |
|              | MultVAE            | 31.61     | 40.61     | 35.23    |
|              | EASE               | 36.19     | 44.49     | 39.35    |


# Environmental Impact

- **Hardware Type:** More information needed
- **Hours used:** ~ 200 (including hyperparameter tuning)
- **Cloud Provider:** Azure
- **Compute Region:** West Europe
- **Carbon Emitted:** ~ 35 kg CO2 eq.

Carbon emissions were estimated using the [Machine Learning Impact calculator](https://mlco2.github.io/impact#compute) presented in [Lacoste et al. (2019)](https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.09700).

# Technical Specifications

## Model Architecture and Objective

Either one of MLP, MLP+T, MLP+Var, U-Net1D, U-Net2D

## Compute Infrastructure

Databricks ML clusters version 13 ML with sparktrials

# Citation

**BibTeX:**

Anonymized

**APA:**

Anonymized

# Model Card Contact

Anonymized
